Title of the project: 
Car Assistant

Overview of the Project:  
Most of vehicle users have problem with tracking their own vehicle cost. Because it is not practical to manually add those cost and evaluate cost with this busy life schedule. “Car Assistant” is the solution for this problem. This system include mobile application and server side application. User can add multiple vehicles details, fill up details and other vehicle related expenses. User can track and generate reports showing their mileage, fuel consumption and fuel costs per month/year, total cost per month/year. Other than that user will show expected fuel consumption based on fuel analysis in fill-ups.Using mobile application user can track and generate reports showing their mileage, fuel consumption and fuel costs per moth/annually, total cost per month/year. And also he/she can track other vehicle expenses like service, maintenance, insurance, wash, parking etc. Other than that by using mobile app, user can find nearest fuel station around him. I hope to implement a user interface to the server side application because it can provide guide to new vehicle Buyer's for choose a new vehicle. User can select units he/she prefer and fill-up details by stating the mileage of the vehicle, fuel amount, price per fuel amount. When user adds fill-up entry in an application, the web server automatically show expected fuel consumption for that mileage based on analysis. So user can compare the fuel consumption of his vehicle. In fill-ups GPS coordinates of fuel station will be taken automatically.

The Need for the Project :  
As mentioned above tracking their own vehicle cost is not very easy to vehicle users. Our system provides simple, easy solution for this problem. It serves as your vehicle’s mileage tracker as well as its maintenance, service, repair and expense log. It provides the right amount of information in a simple and non-cluttered manner. The user interface will be designed for ease of use. The app helps you save cash by keeping track of your mileage, fuel economy, car service costs, car service reminders, car expenses. According to these facts I think that, it is very important to develop a system for provide solution for this scenario.

Scope of the Project: 
Existing vehicle users and new buyers are the main user roles in this system. Existing vehicle users can add multiple vehicles details, fill up details and other vehicle related expenses. According to those data they can view mileage, fuel consumption and fuel costs per moth/annually, total cost per month/year. New buyers can view cost analysis based on vehicle model.Mobile app functionalities are generate reports showing mileage, fuel consumption and fuel costs per month/year, total cost per month/year. It also locate fuel station around the user. Server application collects data from all the mobile application instances. According to those data it do analysis and provide user to access those statistical data.

Overview of Existing Systems and Technology:  
Currently, there are few android applications on google play store like “Fuelio” and “Fuel Buddy” that provide some of functionalities in “Car Assistant”. But those applications are not provide all of functionalities in “Car Assistant” like user to track other expenses, show expected fuel consumption for mileage based on analysis, guide to the new buyers to choose a vehicle.
